# Jake Fell
![https://media-exp1.licdn.com/dms/image/C4E03AQFQj8IiccZMvw/profile-displayphoto-shrink_200_200/0/1633370387661?e=1639008000&v=beta&t=Q23LMbD9XADnF_9FZxaRgbTX969XIZQ89zPzZeeV30o]

## About Me
### Geographer - Data Analyst - Writer
I'm a student at the University of Washington, working on my Bachelors in Geography with Honors with an emphasis in GIS, mapping, and societies. 

Through my academic and professional endeavors I have a demonstrated proficiency in data visualization and mapping software skills, as well as proven qualitative research capability.

I specialize in data analysis and GIS using Python, SQL, and R, having worked as a GIS engineering intern in the telecommunications industry designing fiber internet infrastructure.
My volunteer experience has taught me leadership, networking, and interpersonal communication skills, having worked with international students for the past two years at UW.

## Professional Experience
### GIS Engineering Intern, TDS Telecom, May 2021 - Present

Using **ArcGIS Pro** mapping software, primarily with **Python** and **SQL**, I designed fiber internet networks in 30 telephone exchanges across the United States, as part of the federal ACAM grant, to provide internet accessibility to underserved rural and suburban communities.
This effort required collaboration with teammates to meet regular deadlines for designs, which were then followed up with cost analyses for the designs using **Excel** and presentation of the designs and costs before management in weekly meetings.

In addition to this project, I wrote and updated 3 **Python** script tools for **ArcGIS Pro** to be used by other teams within the organization for accurate data storage and documentation.

Finally, during the tumultuous wildfire and hurricane season of 2021 across the United States, I worked with a team to create **ArcGIS Online** dashboards showing potential and actual natural disaster hazards to TDS internet infrastructure. These dashboards tracked the live locations of wildfires and hurricanes using time-enabled data with **ArcGIS WebMaps**.
All of these projects were managed using **JIRA** to track the design, build, test, and implementation phases of the tasks and to share updates with others in the organization.

## Education
### Geography with Honors, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, Class of 2021
As a geography major, I have pursued coursework and research which has developed two main groups of skill: Technical mapping software ability using ArcGIS(Pro, Desktop, Online) QGIS, Python and SQL, and writing for the purpose of clear communication research.

On the technical side, the development of software skills has been a challenging yet exciting process of growing in abilities which allow me to quickly anaylze and display data to communicate and apply findings in a countless number of contexts.

Even the best data analysis and visualization is useless without contextualization and additional explanation, which provided the motivation for me to practice academic writing within geography. 
I have always appreciated well-crafted books, articles, and research publications from a readers perspective, and briefly considered a career in journalism prior to geography, which gave additional fuel to becoming a capable writer in my own right.

Below I have listed a series of courses from my time at the UW which contributed to my software and writing skills. Each is accompanied by dates taken and a short description.

Software and Mapping Courses:
Mobile and Web GIS, September 2021 – Present – In progress.
GIS Database Management, January 2021 - March 2021 - Mapped LIDAR flood impact data in **Jupyter** solely using **Python**.
Technical Foundations of Informatics, September 2020 - December 2020 - Constructed and managed datasets in **R** with **SQL**, created applications using **Shiny**, **tidyverse**, **ggplot2** and **R Markdown** within **R**.
Advanced Quantitative Methods, June 2020 - August 2020 - Designed and implemented spatial statistical tests to identify locations of robbery hotspots in Seattle using **Excel** and **ArcGIS Pro**.

Writing and Research Courses:
[Geography Honors Program Research](https://seattlegeography2020.com/housing-moratorium/), September 2020 - June 2021 - COVID-19 eviction moratoria research involving interviews with City of Seattle leadership and discourse analysis in **Atlas TI**.
Student Research Team Lead, November 2020 - March 2021 - Research team lead for school board redistricting project
[Explanation and Understanding in Geography](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jakefell7/detail/overlay-view/urn:li:fsd_profileTreasuryMedia:(ACoAACa1w70BtAEAp5LA7gWZEcqjUJvhEEtLc_s,1591131122509)/), March 2020 - June 2020 - Researched and produced a literature review on the national impacts of mandatory military conscription using domestic and international research.

![https://github.com/jacobf19/Projects/blob/main/HonorsTeam.jpg?raw=true]
2021 Geography Honors Program Research Team.

Though these courses have certain focuses, each of these and many more have taught me both quanitative and qualitative skills inside and outside of geography and given me a desire to continue growing in beyond my time at UW.

## Volunteer Work
### Club Leader, Bridges International at the University of Washington, September 2019 - Present
For the past two years I have co-led the Bridges International club at the UW, connecting international students to community through group meals, discussions, events, and everyday activities like going to the grocery store or learning to drive.
My role at Bridges equipped me with skills to communicate across cultures and lead others, traits which I continue to work on daily.

![https://github.com/jacobf19/Projects/blob/main/BridgesMariners.jpg?raw=true]
Bridges goes to a Seattle Mariners game

## Personal Interests
In my free time I love to be active and get outside, despite the damp Seattle climate, running and biking daily.
I am constantly trying to learn and grow as a person, doing so through reading every day and travelling when possible. 
I unwind by playing guitar, watching soccer with my local Tottenham Hotspur Supporters club, and spending time with friends and family.

![https://github.com/jacobf19/Projects/blob/main/BikePhoto.jpg?raw=true]
Evening bike ride in Kirkland during July 2021, on the east shores of Lake Washington.

## Projects and Pages
- [2021 Geography Honors Research Project](https://seattlegeography2020.com/housing-moratorium/)
- [GitHub Page](https://github.com/jacobf19)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jakefell7/)

## References
1. Jeanne Brooks
2. Carrie Freshour
3. Curtis Warren

## Contact
Personal Email: jakefell7@gmail.com
School Email: jacobf19@uw.edu

Phone Number: 425-953-0405

Thanks for reading my page and getting to know me!

![https://github.com/jacobf19/Projects/blob/main/JakeAlbania.JPG?raw=true]